## Lines and Functions

When looking at a map, we can identify a place by its latitude (where it is in the East-West direction) and longitude (where it is North-South). A special branch of geometry called *analytic geometry* uses a similar approach to locating points in a plane. Points are identified by how far they are from a starting point--called the origin--by moving horizontally left or right by some distance (the *x*-direction) and vertically up or down by a distance (the *y*-direction). Each point can be identified by the values of *x* and *y* where the point is located. The (*x*, *y*) values are called the coordinates of the point, and they are sometimes described as being located in the Cartesian plane, named for the philosopher and mathematician Rene Descartes. We can also think of *x* and *y* as variables, which allows us to describe not only individual points, but many points at the same time.   

A **function** is a special kind of relationship between the two variables *x* and *y*, with each value of *x* associated with only one value of *y* (or sometimes no values of *y*, but never more than one). A function is usually described by an equation that tells us how to calculate the value of *y* that is associated with each *x*. For example, *y* = 5*x* – 7 is the equation of a function, because we can use it to calculate one exact value of *y* for each value of *x*. We can then graph a line or curve on the Cartesian plane (using *x-y* coordinates) that shows all the points described by that equation all at once. A straight **line** is the most fundamental example of a function. There are many other types of functions, including parabolas and polynomials. Lines and other functions are used to model many real-world situations like economics, engineering, and medicine.

Your results suggest that your skills are emerging for working with lines, other functions, and their graphs. To further develop your skills in this area, you can review a general explanation of functions at: http://mathantics.com/section/lesson-video/what-are-functions and of linear functions in particular here: http://www.virtualnerd.com/algebra-1/relations-functions/functions/linear-nonlinear/what-is-a-linear-function. You may want to read http://www.mathsisfun.com/equation_of_line.html, and be sure to check out the interactive line graphing calculator in the middle of the page.
