## Variables, Expressions, and Equations

**Variables, expressions, and equations** are algebraic tools that describe quantities and their relationships in more general and flexible ways than we can do with numbers alone. **Variables** are numbers in disguise, using letters of the alphabet to represent numbers that are unknown, either because we haven’t figured them out yet or because we might want to use more than one number in the same way. They are called variables because the numbers they represent can vary, while numbers themselves are often called constants, because they cannot change. **Expressions** build up more complex quantities by combining one or more variables and numbers, using a variety of operations (addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, or exponents). An **equation** is a mathematical sentence that uses an equal sign to show that two expressions have the same value. Sometimes an expression can be re-written in another equivalent form that is simpler, by factoring, combining like terms, or other algebraic tools. 

These algebraic tools allow us to write more abstract versions of the calculations of arithmetic. For example, in arithmetic we can write the number sentence 1/5+3/5=4/5.  Algebra uses variables and expressions to write a more general version of this sentence, with the equation  a/b+c/b=(a+c)/b, which we can use for any numbers that can substitute for the variables a, b, and c (as long as b≠0).  

Your results suggest that you have mastered working with variables, representing complex quantities with expressions, and writing equivalent expressions as equations. If you want to further strengthen your skills in this area, you can explore more advanced concepts and tools by viewing any of the videos here: http://www.virtualnerd.com/search/search.php?query=expression&search=1.
