## Geometry

**Geometry** is the mathematical science of describing the properties of shapes. One-dimensional geometry describes straight and curved lines. Plane geometry is the subject that describes two-dimensional shapes including circles, triangles, rectangles, and trapezoids. Solid geometry examines three-dimensional shapes including cubes, spheres, cones, and cylinders. More than any other branch of mathematics, geometry helps us observe and measure our physical world. We use geometry to calculate the size of shapes using perimeter, area, and volume. We also analyze the properties shapes through the study of the parallel and perpendicular lines that comprise them, the number and sizes of their angles, and how the lengths of the sides and sizes of the angles compare. 

A special branch of geometry called analytic geometry locates points on the plane using Cartesian coordinates (named for the philosopher and mathematician Rene Descartes), most commonly taught as a pair of values of variables called *x* and *y*. In analytic geometry, the point (*x*, *y*) describes the horizontal distance *x*, and the vertical distance *y*, that a point is from a central starting point or origin. Using analytic geometry, we can examine the properties of straight lines and of a special type of curved line called a function. We can use analytic geometry (the *x-y* plane) to locate shapes and what happens to them as they are moved (translated), turned (rotated), or flipped (reflected). Analytic geometry is also studied using algebraic tools, which allow us to write equations that identify straight lines and curves.

Your results suggest that you have a strong foundation in geometric skills and concepts.
