This expression has addition, subtraction, parentheses,
and exponents. In evaluating a series of calculations, we need to use
the correct *order of operations.* To ensure that everyone evaluates a
mathematical expression in the same way, mathematicians have adopted
some conventions, or standards, for the order in which operations are
done. To ensure consistency, all mathematical expressions are evaluated
in the order often abbreviated as **PEMDAS**:

1.  **Parentheses**: Whatever is inside parentheses happens first. If
    there are several sets of parentheses, start with the innermost
    parentheses first, and follow the correct order of operations within
    those parentheses.

2.  **Exponents** are evaluated next.

3.  **Multiplication and Division** are next. If there are several
    multiplications and divisions, they are evaluated in order from left
    to right

4.  Then **Addition and subtraction** are computed. If there are several
    of these, they are evaluated in order from left to right.

Notice that the answer choices don't require you to calculate the value
of the expression given, but just ask you to do the first few steps in
the calculation.

The expression given is

$$4 + 36 \div 2 \bullet 5^{2} - 5$$

PEMDAS tells us to work with parentheses first, but there are none, so
we can move on to evaluate the exponent. That results in

$$4 + 36 \div 2 \bullet 25 - 5$$

Now that exponents have been evaluated, we need to do multiplication and
division. Notice that in the middle part of the expression, there is one
multiplication and one division in this expression (the dot · is
shorthand for multiplication). This is where the calculation gets a
little tricky: when performing multiplication and division, we always
read from left to right, and evaluate them in the order that we see
them. That means that the next step is to evaluate $36 \div 2 = 18$ ,
which gives us

$$4 + 18 \bullet 25 - 5$$

This is choice A. In each of the other choices, the operations are
evaluated in the incorrect order.

You can review the correct order of operations in calculations like this
here: <http://www.mathsisfun.com/operation-order-pemdas.html>

<http://mathantics.com/index.php/section/lesson/OrderOfOperations>

