This frequency distribution shows the number of students
who were measured to have each height. For example, the value of 60 on
the horizontal axis refers to students who are 60 inches tall. The bar
over the 60 is 6 units high, which means that there were six students
who were 60 inches tall. To make it easier to calculate the median and
mean, we can re-organize the data into a table:

  Height (inches)   Number of students
  ----------------- --------------------
  60                6
  61                5
  62                4
  63                3
  64                2

By adding up the number of students at each height, we can find that
there were 6+5+4+3+2=20 students measured.

The *median* height is the middle value, when the values are listed in
order. Fortunately, the table lists all the data in order. Since there
are 20 values, the middle values are the 10^th^ and 11^th^ values in the
list (together they have 9 higher values and 9 lower values). Counting
from either the bottom or top of the table, we see that the 10^th^ and
11^th^ values are 61 inches tall, so the median is 61 inches.

The *mean* height is what we usually think of as the average. We have to
add up all 20 heights and divide by 20. We can do this in one of two
ways. The first is

$$Average = \ \frac{\left( 60 + 60 + 60 + 60 + 60 + 60 \right) + \left( 61 + 61 + 61 + 61 + 61 \right) + \left( 62 + 62 + 62 + 62 \right) + \left( 63 + 63 + 63 \right) + (64 + 64)\_}{20}$$

(The numbers are grouped in parentheses to help keep track that we have
the right number of each height, matching the frequencies in the graph
and table).

To simplify the calculation, we can re-write this as

$$Average = \ \frac{\left( 6 \times 60 \right) + \left( 5 \times 61 \right) + \left( 4 \times 62 \right) + \left( 3 \times 63 \right) + \left( 2 \times 64 \right)_{}}{20}$$

$$= \frac{360 + 305 + 248 + 189 + 128}{20}$$

$$= \frac{1230}{20}$$

= 61.5

And the mode in a set of data is the value that has the highest
frequency (occurs most often), which is 60 inches.

To summarize:

Mode = 60 inches

Median = 61 inches

Mean = 61.5 inches

The only choice that is true is choice A.

You can review the mean, median, and mode here:
<http://www.mathsisfun.com/data/central-measures.html>

And calculating the mean with grouped frequencies like we have here are
explained here:
<http://www.mathsisfun.com/data/mean-frequency-table.html>
