This problem asks us to evaluate a complex series of
calculations. This expression has addition, multiplication, parentheses,
and a square root. If different people did these operations in different
orders, they would get different values for the expression. To ensure
that everyone evaluates a mathematical expression in the same way,
mathematicians have adopted some conventions, or standards, for the
*order of operations*. To ensure consistency, all mathematical
expressions are evaluated in the order often abbreviated as **PEMDAS**:

1.  **Parentheses**: Whatever is inside parentheses happens first. If
    there are several sets of parentheses, start with the innermost
    parentheses first, and follow the correct order of operations within
    those parentheses.

2.  **Exponents** are evaluated next. Note that square roots and cube
    roots are a way of writing exponents, so roots are done at this
    stage.

3.  **Multiplication and Division** are next. If there are several
    multiplications and divisions, they are evaluated in order from left
    to right

4.  Then **Addition and subtraction** are computed. If there are several
    of these, they are evaluated in order from left to right.

The expression we are starting with is:

$$\frac{1}{3} \bullet 6(4 + 9 + \sqrt{4 \bullet 9})$$

By the order of operations, we have to start with the expression inside
the parentheses, which is

$$(4 + 9 + \sqrt{4 \bullet 9})$$

But in order to evaluate this part of the expression, we have to do the
square root before we can do the addition. For our next steps, we get:

$$\left( 4 + 9 + \sqrt{36} \right) = \left( 4 + 9 + 6 \right) = 19$$

Returning to the original expression, we have found that the part of the
expression in parentheses is equal to 19, so we can write

$$\frac{1}{3} \bullet 6\left( 4 + 9 + \sqrt{4 \bullet 9} \right) = \frac{1}{3} \bullet 6(19)$$

We now need to multiply the three numbers:

$$\frac{1}{3} \bullet 6\left( 19 \right) = 2\left( 19 \right) = 38$$

Which is choice A.

You can review using the correct order of operations in complex
calculations here:
<http://mathantics.com/index.php/section/lesson/OrderOfOperations> and
<http://www.mathsisfun.com/operation-order-pemdas.html>
