This question asks you to identify parallel lines.
Remember that the *slope* of a line is a number that tells you how steep
the line is. Two lines with the same slope are parallel. If we have the
equation of the line, then the easiest way to identify the slope is to
write the equation in the form

Y = mx + b

This is called the *slope-intercept form* of the linear equation. In
this equation, m and b are numbers. The number m represents the slope of
the line, and the number b is the y-intercept, or the point on the
y-axis where the line crosses.

Jay's line is y = 2x – 5, so its slope is m=2 and its y-intercept is b =
-5. If Kalani's line is parallel to this line, then it also has to have
a slope of m=2. We can examine each of the answer choices and convert it
to slope-intercept form, and figure out which one has that slope.

Choice A: 2x + y = -5. We have to get y by itself on the left side of
the equation. To do that, subtract 2x from both sides, and get the
point-intercept linear equation y = -2x -5. The slope is -2.

Choice B: -2x+y=5. Add 2x to both sides of the equation to get y = 2x+5.
The slope is 2. Since this line has the same slope as Jay's line, the
two lines are parallel, and this is the correct choice.

Choice C: x + 2y = -5. Subtract x from both sides of the equation to get
2y = -x – 5, and then divide by 2. : y = (-1/2)x -5/2. The slope is
-1/2. Note that this is the *negative reciprocal* of the slope of Jay's
line, so this line is *perpendicular* to Jay's line.

Choice D: -x + 2y = 5. Add x to both sides, and then divide both sides
by 2, to get y = (1/2)x + 5/2. This line has slope ½.

For a review of what the slope of a line means, see
<http://www.virtualnerd.com/algebra-2/linear-equations-functions/graphing-equations/find-slope/slope-definition>.
You can learn more about parallel and perpendicular lines here:
<http://www.mathsisfun.com/algebra/line-parallel-perpendicular.html>
