This expression has addition, subtraction, parentheses,
and exponents. In evaluating a series of calculations, we need to use
the correct *order of operations.* To ensure that everyone evaluates a
mathematical expression in the same way, mathematicians have adopted
some conventions, or standards, for the order in which operations are
done. To ensure consistency, all mathematical expressions are evaluated
in the order often abbreviated as **PEMDAS**:

1.  **Parentheses**: Whatever is inside parentheses happens first. If
    there are several sets of parentheses, start with the innermost
    parentheses first, and follow the correct order of operations within
    those parentheses.

2.  **Exponents** are evaluated next.

3.  **Multiplication and Division** are next. If there are several
    multiplications and divisions, they are evaluated in order from left
    to right

4.  Then **Addition and subtraction** are computed. If there are several
    of these, they are evaluated in order from left to right.

The expression given is

  $${(5 + 4)}^{2} - (5 + 4^{2})$$
  Parentheses first                                                 $${(9)}^{2} - (5 + 4^{2})$$
  Within the second parentheses, **Exponent** before **Addition**   $${(9)}^{2} - (5 + 16)$$
  Still in parentheses, perform addition                            $$9^{2} - 21$$
  **Exponent** before **subtraction**                               $$81 - 21$$
  Then subtract                                                     60

(note: it's not my intention to display this as a table, but I was just
using this to keep things aligned.)

You can review the correct order of operations in calculations like this
here: <http://mathantics.com/index.php/section/lesson/OrderOfOperations>

And another example is here:
<http://www.virtualnerd.com/algebra-1/algebra-foundations/order-of-operations-examples.php>
