*Exponential growth* refers to a quantity that increases, at a faster
and faster rate. The rate of increase is proportional to the amount
present. For example, if there is twice as much present at a later time,
then the rate at which it increases is also twice as fast at that later
time. *Exponential decay* is the opposite, referring to a quantity that
decreases at a slower and slower rate. The rate of decrease is
proportional to the amount present, so if there is half as much present
at a later time, the rate at which it decreases is half as fast.

For a radioactive element, its radioactivity decreases following an
exponential decay pattern, continuously decreasing, but the rate of
decrease slows down with time. Graph 1 doesn’t show a decreasing
function. Graph 2 shows an increasing function, and actually shows the
pattern of exponential *growth*. Graph 3 shows a function that is
decreasing, but since it is a line, the rate of decrease is the same
always, and that rate is measured by the slope of the line.

Graph 4 shows exponential decay, so it is the correct answer. There are
two specific characteristics of exponential decay visible in this graph:

1.  While the rate of decrease starts off somewhat fast (shown by the
    steepness of the graph as it begins), the rate slows down all the
    time (shown by the graph getting less steep continuously).

2.  The graph always has y&gt;0. If we start with an amount of
    radioactive material and it decays exponentially, there will always
    be some radioactivity left, even if it is smaller and smaller all
    the time.

You can see how to identify exponential functions and their graphs here:
<http://www.virtualnerd.com/algebra-2/exponential-logarithmic-functions/identify-from-data.php>

There are some examples of exponential growth and decay functions here:
<http://www.mathsisfun.com/algebra/exponential-growth.html>

