## Numbers and calculation

Numbers involve so much more than counting! Numbers allow us to count, measure, estimate, and calculate in a variety of contexts, both simple and complex. We use numbers to measure time, describe the weather, keep track of money, navigate across a geography, and keep track of our health.  **Numbers and calculations** form the foundation of all of mathematics and science, including economics, finance and banking, medicine, and so many other aspects of our world. 

When we first start learning about numbers, we count and do simple computations with whole numbers. As we try to measure and record quantities in more complex situations, numbers are extended to include fractional quantities and negative numbers. Repeated addition leads to multiplication, and repeated multiplication leads to exponents. Every operation has an *inverse*, or opposite, so we can undo addition by subtracting, or can undo an exponent by taking a root. Some contexts, like formulas in geometry, science, or economics, require calculations with more than just two numbers at a time, but can involve many operations at once, requiring standards for how multiple operations work together to help answer questions and solve problems. Sometimes a precise, calculated number is needed, but in other problem contexts, we can learn a lot by estimating a result. In other situations, the same quantity can be described in different ways, requiring us to convert from feet per minute to miles per hour. The **Numbers and Calculation** domain assesses your proficiency at all these types of skills. 

Your results suggest that your number and calculation skills are just developing. For an overview of a variety of concepts in number and computation, shoose some of the videos available here: http://mathantics.com/. There are some good tips and tricks for estimation here:  http://www.mathsisfun.com/numbers/estimation-tips-tricks.html
